test/load-test/FLAMEGRAPH.md, before:

# Flamegraph

[Flamegraph](https://github.com/flamegraph-rs/flamegraph?tab=readme-ov-file) is performance analysis tool. These are instructions for how to use it on a mac.

## Setting up and running flamegraph

1. Install  flamegraph

```sh
cargo install flamegraph
```

2. Start the local env

Note: your might want to change the `--worker-count for the coproc-node to be 1.

```sh
cargo run --bin local
```

You should see the log line with the PID. Keep track of the pid

```sh
coproc-node process ID: <PID>
```

3. Start the load tests to generate realistic load.

To keep the data focused on job execution, we opt out of polling for job result and just run the scenario `LoadtestSubmitJobb`.

```sh
export WAIT_UNTIL_JOB_COMPLETED=false
cargo run --bin test-load --release -- --scenarios LoadtestSubmitJobb
```

4. Run flamegraph. To create the graph, hit ctrl+c after the desired amount of time

```
sudo flamegraph -o my_flamegraph.svg --pid <PID>
```

5. Open the graph svg. You can do this by dragging `my_flamegraph.svg` to your google chrome browser

### Notes

The above shows how to run just the load test submit job scenario and removes `get_result` calls to more clearly examine where time is spent while executing. You may want to examine other aspects, in which case you may want to run a different load test or adjust parameters of the node (such as worker count).


### Findings 2024.9.26

Our initial findings showed that the longest part of job execution is calculating the verifying key. We can improve benchmarks by commenting out the verification key derivation. Inside of the actual execution logic for risc0, the longest part by far is deriving the verification key - however we don't have control over this logic since it is from the risc0 lib. We have a [flamegraph](./assets/submit_job_flamegraph.svg) where we commented out our verification key derivation logic and you can observe that the risc0 executor derives the verification ID itself and that its about 98% of the vm's execution time. The actual execution is maybe 1% of the call to `LocalProver::execute`.

Commit message:

refactor: Rename to `program_id` and reorganize program folders (#364)

test/load-test/FLAMEGRAPH.md, after:

# Flamegraph

[Flamegraph](https://github.com/flamegraph-rs/flamegraph?tab=readme-ov-file) is performance analysis tool. These are instructions for how to use it on a mac.

## Setting up and running flamegraph

1. Install  flamegraph

```sh
cargo install flamegraph
```

2. Start the local env

Note: your might want to change the `--worker-count for the coproc-node to be 1.

```sh
cargo run --bin local
```

You should see the log line with the PID. Keep track of the pid

```sh
coproc-node process ID: <PID>
```

3. Start the load tests to generate realistic load.

To keep the data focused on job execution, we opt out of polling for job result and just run the scenario `LoadtestSubmitJobb`.

```sh
export WAIT_UNTIL_JOB_COMPLETED=false
cargo run --bin test-load --release -- --scenarios LoadtestSubmitJobb
```

4. Run flamegraph. To create the graph, hit ctrl+c after the desired amount of time

```
sudo flamegraph -o my_flamegraph.svg --pid <PID>
```

5. Open the graph svg. You can do this by dragging `my_flamegraph.svg` to your google chrome browser

### Notes

The above shows how to run just the load test submit job scenario and removes `get_result` calls to more clearly examine where time is spent while executing. You may want to examine other aspects, in which case you may want to run a different load test or adjust parameters of the node (such as worker count).


### Findings 2024.9.26

Our initial findings showed that the longest part of job execution is calculating the program ID. We can improve benchmarks by commenting out the program ID derivation. Inside of the actual execution logic for risc0, the longest part by far is deriving the program ID - however we don't have control over this logic since it is from the risc0 lib. We have a [flamegraph](./assets/submit_job_flamegraph.svg) where we commented out our program ID derivation logic and you can observe that the risc0 executor derives the program ID itself and that its about 98% of the vm's execution time. The actual execution is maybe 1% of the call to `LocalProver::execute`.
