book/src/integration/README.md, before:

# Integration Concepts

 InfinityVM enables developers to use expressive offchain compute alongside the EVM to create new types of permissionless applications. This section discusses key concepts for building such applications.

## Coprocessing Jobs

Core to offchain compute is the notion of a coprocessing job. Each request for compute to the InfinityVM coprocessor is called a Job. A job reflects a single invocation of a zkVM program with a specific set of inputs. The job request contains a program ID and inputs to the program. Valid job requests are picked up by a coprocessing node (CN), and the requested program along with the specified inputs get executed in a RISC-V interpreter. The result of a job (i.e. the programs output), can be configure to be posted either fully or partially onchain[^note1]. When a job result is posted onchain, it will call a callback for a specified contract, which can then execute arbitrary logic. Importantly, InfinityVM guarantees that the canonical execution chain only contains valid job results.

There are two paradigms for requesting jobs: onchain and offchain.

[^note1]: In the case of partially posting results onchain, a commitment to the full result and its inclusion in DA is included.

### Onchain

Read more in the [onchain jobs section](./onchain.md).

### Offchain

Read more in the offchain jobs section(./offchain.md).

Commit message:

add primer on how to write a program

book/src/integration/README.md, after:

# Integration Concepts

 InfinityVM enables developers to use expressive offchain compute alongside the EVM to create new types of permissionless applications. This section discusses key concepts for building such applications.

## Coprocessing Jobs

Core to offchain compute is the notion of a coprocessing job. Each request for compute to the InfinityVM coprocessor is called a Job. A job reflects a single invocation of a zkVM program with a specific set of inputs. The job request contains a program ID and inputs to the program. Valid job requests are picked up by a coprocessing node (CN), and the requested program along with the specified inputs get executed in a RISC-V interpreter. The result of a job (i.e. the programs output), can be configure to be posted either fully or partially onchain[^note1]. When a job result is posted onchain, it will call a callback for a specified contract, which can then execute arbitrary logic. Importantly, InfinityVM guarantees that the canonical execution chain only contains valid job results.

There are two paradigms for requesting jobs: onchain and offchain.

[^note1]: In the case of partially posting results onchain, a commitment to the full result and its inclusion in DA is included.

### Onchain

Read more in the [onchain jobs section](onchain).

### Offchain

Read more in the [offchain jobs section](offchain).

### Programs

Read more in the [writing a program](program)

[onchain]: ./onchain.md
[offchain]: ./offchain.md
[program]: ./writing-program.md
